Who is it from?
I can't guess from
the handwriting.
M. Mitra
Must be someone on your
mother's side.
I don't know of any
M. Mitra.
They say, there'll be no power
cuts during the holidays.
Well? Who's it from?
Whose letter is it, Mummy?
- Just a moment.
Ok. Like a massive...
Well?
Is it some bad news?
I don't know.
Don't know?
Who's that from, Mummy?
Your great uncle!
The one who ran away
from home?
But he's been missing
for ages!
35 years! He left in 1955.
I was only two then.
And your uncle?
He left immediately
after graduation.
I don't remember him at all.
Later, my mother told me
everything.
Last time we heard from him
was in 1968.
He never wrote to any of his
relatives.
Only to Mr. Sital. A post
cover every 6 months or so.
From various places in Europe.
It was not possible to reply
because he gave no address.
This Sital was a family friend,
wasn't he?
Yes.
He was grandpa's neighbour.
He has been to see us also.
Oh yes. He was in the
Governor's accounts department.
He has retired and is living in
Shanti Niketan, isn't it?
It was from him that
uncle learnt about us.
Where has he written from?
New Delhi.
Qutub Hotel.
Any way, just read me
the letter, will you?
I must say his command of
Bengali is admirable.
My dear Baby.
Baby? Who is baby?
Let me read it, will you?
My dear Baby.
I don't know your real name.
Oh! I'm addressing you
in this fashion.
I hope you won't mind.
That's very florid style.
When I left home, you were
no more than a baby.
I have finished my travels
in the West...
... and have only just
arrived here.
... learnt from
Mr. Sital that...
... you're my only
close relation left...
... and are settled happily.
Your husband and son ...
I shall soon resume
my wanderings.
In the meantime,
I dearly wish...
to spend a week as the
guest of my niece...
... in the city of
my birth.
Won't know this uncle
of yours by sight...
... as I won't know you.
I realize that in the
instances my request...
... amounts to an
imposition.
In our country,
in the old days, ...
...hospitality was
extended even...
... to total strangers.
It is the thought
of this tradition...
... that gives me the courage
to make this request.
I have decided.
We leave by the Rajdhani
Express on the 16th ...
... and arrive in Calcutta
on the 17th morning.
I shall then turn up at
your house in a taxi.
It is certainly up to you
to accept me...
...as a guest or not.
Let me assure you.
I'm used to experiences
both bitter and sweet.
Yours affectionately, ...
Uncle Manmohan Mitra.
You have no memories
of your uncle.
You even recall whether he is
stout or thin or tall or short.
No.
So there is only one thing.
Send an immediate reply...
... by telegram,
A letter won't do.
Tell him a bare faced lie?
What do you mean a lie?
That people go on holidays...?
... doesn't know
I'm an executive...
... as if I were a professor?
We are enjoying a long holiday
on autumn, wouldn't I?
That you're not professor.
How can you be sure that
this man isn't lying?
You know how common fraud
is these days?
There's a priceless art collection...
... in that sitting room alone.
Subjects worth a million rupees.
Take just one bronze
figurine...
.... from the top
of the book shelf...
... and you can make
a fortune...
... by selling it to a
foreign tourist.
You mean he is coming
to commit a theft
Uncle was a great
favourite of my mother.
Dad too was very fond on him.
Did not without reason.
Uncle was very gifted.
Never stood second in his life.
Here a person can change
beyond recognition.
It doesn't seem so
from the letter.
I'll assume that he is
indeed your uncle...
... and a model of virtue.
Won't you give your husband
a little thought?
What do you mean?
Says he's coming on
the 17th, Friday.
That he'll stay for a week.
Means, the whole weekend
would be ruined.
The autumn festival
starts on 21st.
I thought I'd relax
during the holidays.
Now comes this old man...
...claiming to be your uncle.
Come in dear sir. Sit down in.
Have a meal dear, sir.
Don't like it at all.
What?
Your attitude, what else?
You can't send this telegram
in answer to this letter.
As a thoroughly decent letter!
- I don't deny that.
In fact, its a little too
decent. - That's the trouble.
How can a man who's been
away from home so long...
... write such elegant Bengali?
May be he got someone else
to write for him.
But the sentiment is
surely his own.
No. There's a snag in it.
Very well.
Is grand uncle coming, mummy?
Ask Daddy.
What is it now?
Are you cross with me
or something?
A fake uncle is better than
no uncle.
Is that what you wish to say?
- Wish to say only one thing.
What's the need for a
letter or a telegram?
He says he is coming here
on the 17th.
Let him come.
If I find him a fake...
... or is real, but has come
with an ulterior motive, ...
... then you won't have
to do anything.
I'll myself whisk him
away with a broom.
Just think - a fake
great uncle!
National Film Development
Corporation Presents
Film by Satyajit Ray.
With Utpal Dutt, Dipankar Dey.
Mamta Shankar. B. Bhattacharji.
Robi Ghosh. Dhritiman Chatterji.
Subrata Chatterji.
Pramode Ganguly.
Ajit Banerji.
Camera:
Barun Raha
Art Director:
Asoke Bose
Editing:
Dulal Dutta
Re-recording:
Hitendra Ghosh
Produced by:
NFDC Ltd.
Written, Scored and
Directed by : Satyajit Ray
Sweep well under the cupboard.
There's a lot of dust there.
Madhu, when you've done
the bed...
... bring a flask of cold
and put it on the table.
You stay there and call,
but when he comes...
Mummy!
Come down for the luggage,
You there.
What is your name?
Satyaki
Lord Krishna's pupil
or Sudhindra Bose's son?
Your name?
- Anila.
Did you get my letter?
- Oh, yes.
I didn't get a reply.
I hope you didn't write
asking me not to come.
No, no.
You think I don't know
I've put you in a spot?
Asking you to accept someone
you've hardly seen...
... as your uncle...
Why do you say that?
It's good to find back a thing
one had taken for lost
I presume your
husband is...
...in the office - There's no
work tomorrow and day after ...
... and the Durga festival
starts on the 21st.
I see.
Can I get you a
cold drink?
A little rest and then
you can have your bath.
Very well, but no
ice please.
Half a mind to buy some
sweets for you and the boy.
Then I realized I didn't
know where to go for these...
... would probably end up
buying inferior stuff.
The old confectioners Ganguram...
still there?
Oh yes, there are many
new ones.
Why this tastes a lot
like Coca Cola?
Is this made here?
- Yes.
Good Lord! - This isn't how you
spell Thumbs up, Satyaki?
Oh, no.
That's better.
You go to school, I suppose?
Yes, now we have a month's
holiday for festivals.
On the way, I saw some houses
with decorations...
... which suggested I'd come
during the festival.
Have you watched a Durga festival
in all these years...
you've been away?
- No.
But I've seen
Lord Krishna's Chariot.
D'you know where?
Madison Avenue in New York
It's the same here.
Swarming with white skinned
followers of Krishna.
They are the men that
ring out the Chariot, not we
Do you know the 108 names
of Lord Krishna?
No.
My grandma used to sing it.
I'll teach you.
You'll have a bath,
won't you?
If it isn't too much
trouble.
Not at all. Your room's
upstairs.
Satyaki will show you.
You have a lovely house.
My father-in-law built it.
And your husband
has inherited it?
Come, Satyaki
By the way, I know nothing
about your taste in food
Dear, I'm Omnivorous
and a small eater.
So, you have nothing
to worry about.
Has he come?
- Yes, just 10 minutes ago.
What shall I say?
Seems a jovial person.
He uses endearing terms when
talking to me. I quite like it!
But you haven't addressed
as dear uncle, already?
I'm not so gullible.
Goodness! Does he
resemble your mother?
No, but one thing he
shares with her.
What?
- A singing voice.
He's already been singing
for you?
Oh, no. Just a couple
of lines.
How's his Bengali?
Better than yours or mine.
What? I find that
very suspicious.
Listen.
- What now?
Ask to see his passport.
There's no sound proof
of identity than that.
Are you out of your mind?
You think a woman can do that?
You do that when you meet him.
I can't be bothered.
I'm hanging up.
We've come.
Kurta Pyjama. I hope
this dress will do.
Certainly!
I had nothing that
I could wear here.
So I bought these
in Delhi.
Come in.
That's fish.
Sit down, please.
Since you're omnivorous,
you mustn't skip any items.
But I also said 'small eater,'
remember?
I suggest you put aside
the meat for dinner.
I'll have the fish now.
Do you know what this is?
I told you how long I
don't taste Bengali dishes.
You wouldn't believe me.
This is curried spinach.
You know Popeye the sailor,
Satyaki?
Oh yes, it's spinach that
gives him strength.
Here's something new.
Good Lord! What are these?
- Fancy crisps.
The women of Midnapore
prepare them at home.
Edible embroideries.
This could only happen in Bengal.
Give me one, mummy.
Won't you join us, dear?
I'll eat,
when you've finished.
That means, you haven't
become a Memsahib yet.
You say you haven't tasted
Bengali cooking all these years.
But there are any number of
Bengalis in the West.
In New York alone,
we know so many of them.
Haven't you had anything
to do with them?
Once I've broken free
of my moorings...
...why hobnob with Bengalis
anymore?
But you haven't forgotten
the language.
You speak it well,
write it well.
I'll take lentil first
then fish.
So do we.
You know what, dear?
Unless you wish to forget your
mother tongue, you don't forget it.
But if you do, you can
do so in 3 months.
And for that you didn't have
to leave the country.
In Delhi, I find children
addressing their parents...
... as Mummy and Daddy.
Do you do the same, Satyaki?
- Certainly not!
The crisps are eaten
with lentil.
Shall I give you one?
- Very well. Fancy Crisps
Why did you leave home?
Mother told me
everyone loved you.
And you were a fine student
with a bright future.
But yet why I left home?
- Yes.
There's a lovely word in
German, 'Wanderlust'.
It means the irrepressible
urge to travel.
Is that the only reason?
It's true that I've always
felt that urge.
But there was another reason.
Will you take the fish now?
I'd rather have the mutton.
Fish bones will hamper
my speech.
Enough. Enough.
You haven't said
what the other reason was.
So you are listening to me,
are you?
I'll tell you.
It'll amuse you!
I used to draw very well
as a small boy
Yes, mother used
to say so.
I had decided to join
an art school...
... after finishing
my studies.
One day, in my first year
at college...
... a foreign journal fell
into my hands.
I opened it and found a
full page picture of a bison.
Not a photo,
but a painting.
You know what a bison is?
Yes, they have horns
on their heads.
Yes, this bison was
charging...
...with head bent and
horns sticking out.
You know, dear? It was an
extraordinary painting.
Such poise!
Such a bold stance!
As if it was painted
by Da Vinci.
Who was this painter?
Who was that
unique draughtsman?
Then I read the caption
underneath.
It said the bison was painted
2000 years ago...
...in the stone age...
... in a place called
Altamita Spain ...
... by a cave dwelling
primitive man.
I found it so astonishing
that I said to myself...
...Salutes to you Mr. Bison.
Whatever else I may become,
I shall never become a painter.
Because there is no art
school in the world...
... where you can learn
to draw a bison like this.
This gave me the urge
to explore the question ...
... of savagery
and civilization.
And to this was added
wanderlust.
The two together made me
leave home.
You've said you were planning
to set off again.
This visit to Australia.
I haven't been to
that part at all.
This is Greek coin, a Drachma
This is Polish - Zloty.
This is Mexican - Peseta.
This is a Sol - from Peru
Anish's uncle also collects coins,
I know what they're called.
What ?
I don't collect coins.
It's not my hobby.
These were lying with me.
And now they belong to you.
- To me, really?!
You can show these
to your friends.
I've already told
my friends.
Some of them, not all.
- What?
That we have now a guest
in our house, ...
... who may or may not be
my great uncle.
They're going to see you
in a little while.
Come along now.
Don't you want him to rest ?
I'm going.
What?
A German word.
It means, we'll meet again.
Just think - Andes, the highest
mountain in South America.
On this mountain, at a height
of 8000 feet ...
... a city built of stone.
For 4000 years the city
had laid hidden ...
... from human eyes,
Then, in 1911, ...
... the year Mohun Bagan beat
the British football team ...
... and won the IFA shield,...
... that very year an explorer
called Hiran Bingham,...
... suddenly chanced upon
this city.
What name did I say ?
- Machu Pichhu
Here you are.
Have you been to this city?
Of course, the picture
is taken by me.
I went twenty years ago
on mule back.
I was struck dumb.
Everything there is
made of stone.
Yet there are no stones
for miles around
Where they found the stone ...
... and how they carried it
up to the hill side, ...
... nobody knows.
It was truly wonderful,
the Inca Civilization.
Tell us another story!
- No, not a story.
This time I'll show you
a trick.
I'll ask you a few questions.
Let's see if you can
answer them correctly.
Tell me, "Which is large,
Moon or Sun?"
Sun?
How do you know?
Just a moment.
Suppose this is Moon...
.. and this is Sun.
In the sky, they look the
same size, don't they?
That's because the sun is
much further away?
How much?
I'll tell you.
The sun is 95 million
miles away.
While the moon distance is
only five hundred thousand miles.
That's why, Sun looks bigger.
Suppose the moon had been
200000 miles away, ...
...then it would have
looked bigger.
Like this. Isn't that so?
- Yes.
And suppose the moon had been
800000 miles away...
Then it would have looked
smaller.
Somewhat like this, isn't it?
But neither happens.
The moon is just so far away
that makes it look the ...
... the same size of Sun.
That's why, when the Moon
takes it position, ...
... in front of the Sun
and slowly covers it, ...
... disc matching disc.
Solar Eclipse!
Yes, total eclipse
of Sun.
And when the earth's shadow
falls on the Moon ...
... then also the two
discs match perfectly.
Lunar Eclipse!
Total eclipse of Moon!
What d'you think
made that possible?
You don't know.
Ask the wisest man on earth
and even he will say...
... he doesn't know.
Nobody knows.
It's a mystery!
I say it's one of the greatest
mysteries of the universe.
Sun and Moon.
King of the day!
Queen of the night!
And the shadow of Earth on Moon,...
all exactly the same size.
Magic!
Listen!
What?
Come here a moment.
I'm convinced.
- That he's your uncle?
Yes, and a very nice man.
So you are gullible,
after all.
In these few hours, you found out
everything about a man?
Women are capable of that.
They take people on trust.
And surely you can tell a lot,...
... from the way a man acts and
walks and the look in his eyes.
And there is no doubt that
he has been abroad.
He knows German.
And he has given my son
some foreign coins.
Foreign coins?
I suppose you know one can
buy foreign postage stamps.
There are dealers in
coins too.
Tell me what coin you want.
I'll get you one tomorrow.
Anyway, I only said
what I felt.
Has he given any reasons
for leaving home?
It was in that connection that
he used a German word
Which means an urge to travel.
Wanderlust?
Yes, but he pronounced it
differently.
Yes.
The word is used in
English too.
And pronounced in the
English way.
I studied German at the Goethe
Institute for a couple of months.
Then lost patience!
I still have a stock of 5
or so German words.
What else did he say?
About what?
Leaving home, what else?
He said a lot. I'll take a long
time to tell you everything.
I'm interested to know.
Bison. Does that mean
anything to you?
There's a guest in the house.
You are the host.
Do go and say hello to him.
- Where's he?
Must be in his room.
He's been out with
Satyaki's friends.
Came back a little while ago.
Come on, get up.
You'd better see about
the broom.
Listen.
- What is it now?
I have one favour to ask of you.
- What?
Please pay your respects to
him and touch his feet.
Sudhindra Bose.
No. no, most certainly not.
When your mind is free of doubt,
then you can touch my feet.
Not before then.
I have said in my letter
a line telling you how ...
... I know who you are.
But you don't know who I am.
Unfortunately, there's no
quick way of finding out.
If I am the real person
or a fake one,...
... only time will tell you.
You decide whether you're
prepared to wait.
But why do you say
there is no quick way to know?
I feel.
Well. It actually bears
your name ...
... and your picture too
Then it's all right.
Why are you... ?
What does this prove?
My identity, you'll say.
I say, not even that.
In these days of
global corruption, ...
... do you know how easy it is
to forge a passport?
Therefore, you have every
right to disbelieve me.
I can't say that
to your wife.
She is looking after the guest
in an exemplary fashion.
And it is a question of
blood relationship.
It applies to her,
not to you.
Look there. I haven't opened
my suitcase yet.
If it comes to that, I can be
out in the street in five minutes.
But why do you say that ...
... my wife likes you
Forget it.
I am curious only about one thing.
- What?
Why did you decide to come
back after so many years?
Well, you're free to believe me
or not.
It wasn't my wish to
come back home.
I've done my job
in the West.
Now I want to travel East.
I have to stop in Delhi anyway.
Till now, I haven't felt any ties
of affection for my relatives.
Perhaps of the fact that I'm
getting on in years.
That's all right.
You may rest now.
I'll just go and have
a shower.
You win for the time being.
Passport?
- It's okay.
Did he show it to you?
- Yes, almost without my asking.
Then why say for the time being?
He must be the real uncle.
That man can twist me
around his little finger.
D'you know what he said?
- What?
He says that passport
proves nothing.
He says passports are being
forged everyday now.
Ask to see his passport. - Ask
to see his passport now what?
How could I know that
your so called uncle...
... was such a shrewd customer?
What it is,
I don't know yet.
I think I'll find out...
... tomorrow evening.
What do you mean?
I have asked Pritish to
come tomorrow evening.
Why him?
We need someone who can
talk straight.
You know very well ...
... that your husband is not
such a man.
I suffer from a chronic liability
to come out into the open.
Pritish has no such
complaints.
I have told him everything
and he is most intrigued.
He has handled such cases
of impersonation before.
Is he going to
cross question him?
He can be very blunt,
this friend of yours.
What d'you mean?
Cross question?
The man claims to be your
great uncle.
That's why, we've taken him
as a guest.
We have to feed him,
don't we?
It'll cost us atleast
Rs.5 a day.
And yet we know next to
nothing about the man.
There are certain essential things
we must know about him.
Pritish will find out and do it
as decently as possible.
To me it seems
perfectly feasible.
That a man who had left his
home when his niece was two,...
... now wants to see her again
after so many years.
I see nothing wrong
in that.
Very well.
If he has come for sentimental reason
then I have nothing to say.
But if I find your uncle's
up to no good ...
... and if he turn out not to
be my uncle?
Well, you know
what to do.
Sweep him away with a broom!
Chanda here.
Can't you recognise my voice?
It sounds so different.
It's nothing but excitement.
Has he come?
Yes, he has.
Of course, it's true.
Well, how do you find him?
He's only arrived today.
My husband and I are bursting
with curiosity.
Ever since you told us, we've been
able to think of nothing else.
I hope you haven't told
any one else.
Believe me.
We've been itching to...
... but we haven't said a word.
Well, now that you know,
Goodbye then.
No. no, wait, Mr. husband
wants to talk to you.
I'm handing him the phone.
I have a request which
you must keep.
What is it?
We'd like to drop in
for just half an hour.
I see. But what if he finds
out that...
Listen.
I give you my word.
He won't find out.
It'll be just one of your
usual social calls.
We'll go causally.
Have a casual chat
And then come away casually.
All you have to do is tell Sudhin
not to introduce me as an actor
At least he mustn't know
in the early stages.
Do you want to come
this evening?
We've double shows on
weekend, don't you see?
All right, then come
this evening.
Listen...
What's up?
Ranjan and Chanda are coming
in a little while.
They say they won't let him
know they've come to see him.
Jolly Good. Ring up all your
other friends too.
Don't be silly.
- Why not?
They can share the responsibility
of entertaining the old man.
And listen.
Please introduce him
as my uncle.
May I come in?
I hope I'm not intruding?
Not at all.
Let me introduce you.
Mr. and Mrs. Rakhit
Manmohan Mitra.
I don't think we've...
You haven't. He is
Anita's maternal uncle.
Maternal...
No. I'm making a mistake.
Another friend of ours.
I think it was
Manju's uncle.
Manju never had an uncle.
You have three maternal
uncles, don't you?
No, two.
Two. The elder one
is dead.
The younger one left
35 years ago.
I'm getting all mixed up.
You mix up things
all the time.
Anila's uncle left home
35 years ago.
He came back this morning.
Where from?
The West.
But this is sensational.
Another Bhawal Sanyasi!
Do you know of the
Bhawal Sanyasi great case?
I do.
- World famous case.
Do you know how long it went on?
Ten years.
There is no question of
a court case.
No?
- No.
You mean the fact that
he's Mrs. Bose's uncle...
... is undisputed.
Well, you don't know
the lawyers these days.
They'd have wrung you dry.
And you'd find yourself out...
... on the streets again
with a begging bowl.
I see these are your famous
home made biscuits.
Famous?
Delicious!
Now that he is back, shouldn't
you announce it to the press?
I'll not.
I'm not.
And if I find that a single
journalist has got on to the fact...
I think you're at the
bottom of it.
They won't get a
single fact out of me.
But I could see a headline
before my eyes.
Do you know that prodigal has
two meanings, Mr. Rakhit?
Two meanings?
One is wasteful.
And the other is repentant.
I'm neither.
I'm happy to hear this.
May I ask you something?
Certainly.
We didn't know a thing.
Now that we are here,
you know?
Are you back here alone?
There is no one else
to keep me company.
You mean you never married?
Wife would mean a family
and a house.
The whole point is, I didn't wish
to be tied down to a home.
I see, I get it.
If you've come back to
Calcutta after ages...
... did you start your journey
from Calcutta?
Yes.
Well, how d'you find the city
after such a long time?
Mind you, I'm in and out
of Calcutta.
But I'm used to hearing
the city denounced.
Why? It's certainly a
civilized city!
You think so?
- Why not?
Oh, the people are happier
in the streets.
The high rises ascending
proudly...
... and in the midst
of these,...
... even after 35 years.
I find men pulling rickshaws.
How can you have a civilization
without these contradictions?
You seem rather bitter
about civilization?
What would you say
about a city like New York?
Why, its colossal?
Judging from what we
see in the movies,...
... family after family with
long faces squatting on it, ...
... while a placard says,...
... we are homeless.
Are you coming straight
from New York?
No. South America.
Brazil.
Brazil. Great heavens!
What's the matter?
He's probably
thinking of Pele.
Pele?
You've been in Brazil and
you haven't heard of Pele?
Oh yes, foot baller,
isn't he?
He scored a goal
with a back kick.
Mr. Rakhit my knowledge
of football...
...is shockingly limited.
I only know about...
... two Bengal teams,
Mohan Bagan and East Bengal.
Football and another thing,...
... something you must have
missed in the West.
What?
Something which is the
monopoly of Bengal.
In fact you may call it
an invention of the Bengalis.
The sweetmeat "Rasogolla"
Talk sessions.
There are simple sessions
on park benches and by the lakes...
... and in coffee houses.
That which Bengalis
thrive on.
Talk sessions made in
Bengal.
D'you know 25 years ago,
in Greece,
... there were gymnasiums.
Health gymnasiums,
weren't they?
Not just looking macho...
... and juvenile's dictum.
We learnt it at school.
Mens Sana in
corpore sano.
The Greek thus exercise both
the mind and the body.
And there was a time when both
took place in the gymnasium.
All these leading much of
Athens.
Plato, Socrates, Alicibiades
used to come.
There were discussions...
... on Philosophy, Politics,
Mathematics...
... Art, Literature.
They were known as Dialogue,
You can still read them.
Now how would you describe
such an activity?
Why they sound very much
like our talk sessions?
No gossip no backbiting,
no braggado.
I don't wish to discuss the talk
sessions that the Bengalis indulge in.
There must be some examples
of productive discourse.
But what happens in
most cases?
At least what happens
in our time...
... and the norms have gone down
these days,...
... could only be described as
empty twaddle.
Its discourse was at that
level here.
Then Tegore would have
joined in them too.
True enough.
Tagore may get indulged in
talk sessions.
Did he, Sudhin?
Did Tagore ever indulge
in talk sessions?
I haven't really introduced
him to you.
He is a well known actor.
Stage, Screen, TV,
everything.
Won't you call that civilized?
Do you find material
for comedy here?
Read nothing but tales of
woe in the paper today.
I think there's room
for satire.
As long as our politicians
are there,...
- ... don't mean anything
as classy as Aris... - Aris?
Not.
Sorry?
Aristophanes?
Yes. - Well, it's not
quite at that level.
More like skits.
For instance, a certain
gentleman.
I'm giving you an example.
A Bengali gentleman.
Actually, someone
from East Bengal.
Mind you, I'm also
East Bengali
Really?
Well, so am I.
So is my wife.
And you?
East.
And you Sudhin?
West with a vengeance.
Sorry. You don't count.
Anyway, this gentleman...
Stand up, stand up.
Very well.
This gentleman has gone
to the Writers Building...
... to see the
Chief Minister
He feels that on
certain occasions,...
... English works are better
than Bengali.
Well, there he is.
In front of the lift...
... the police stops him.
The police asked
where do you want to go?
The man said I've come
to see C.M.
CCM? You mean
CPM? (Communist Party Marxist).
Do you have
an appointment?
Yes, right now.
4 cm - I mean, pm.
Why sorry?
What's there to be
sorry about?
Left so soon?
- Right.
Well. Mr. Rakhit, can I
ask you something now?
Certainly.
- How do you find me?
You've come to see me,
haven't you?
What's the use of a new paper
... where there's a telephone?
It must be very hard to keep it
to yourself. Isn't that so, Anila?
It's full of the stuff
of drama.
Suspense, suspicion,
conflict...
I hope you don't mind
my saying so, Mr. Rakhit.
No, no, in fact, it won't be
easy to keep up the pretense.
Now that it is no longer
necessary, I feel...
... much relieved,
is that it?
What's the matter?
I can't get it out of my mind.
- What?
Ranjan's expressions.
I've never seen him
deflated like that.
I must say I'm beginning
to like your uncle.
There's no doubt he's
a learned man.
One can see he was
a good student.
What I like most about him
is his sense of humour.
He knows how to laugh and
how to make people laugh.
We know next to nothing
about the man.
What he's been doing
all these years?
Where he's been? Why?
Nothing.
Very surprising.
Listen, your uncle may be
an early riser.
I'm not going to stir
before nine.
What's the matter?
What's in your mind?
Will you please tell me
what's the matter?
It's wrong to hide anything
from your husband at bed time.
Do you know that?
This is not marriage counsel.
I made it up.
Now come on,
out with it.
Come on.
Why did it come to my mind
Why? Why? Why?
What came to your mind?
What?
If a man disappears,...
... how much time is given
before he's taken for dead?
7 years.
Uncle left in 55.
He sent that card to
Mr. Sital till '68.
Grandpa died in '70.
He had made a will.
My mother got a share.
So did my elder uncle.
Grandpa was very fond of
my younger uncle.
Now I see.
This surely calls
for applause!
Your grandpa must have
provided in his will...
... for your younger uncle.
Isn't that what you believe?
Then if he did, how would
uncle know?
We can think of it later.
We have to find out now whether
he did make such provision.
How will you find out?
Isn't there anyone,
who'll know?
I don't know.
I can't think of anything else.
Listen.
That lawyer friend of your grandpa's.
He came to our wedding.
A bit deaf and stinking rich.
Yet he gave us a book of
verse as present.
Remember what a laugh
we had over it?
Tridib Mukherji?
- Right!
He was 70 or 80
at that time.
What makes you think
he's still alive?
He may be.
And if he is,
he'd certainly know.
Why did I have
to think of it?
Why, why?
Are you regretting it?
- Yes, I am. Very much so.
I have no doubt in my mind
any more that he is my uncle...
... and the only reason
he's come is to see me.
There can't be
any other reason.
You refer to him
as your uncle.
But have you ever
addressed him as uncle?
I haven't heard
you doing so.
Do you know, why I haven't?
It's because of you.
You put such doubts
in to my mind.
I want so much
to call him uncle.
I try to so hard.
The word comes to the tip
of my tongue, but...
... good thing
it hasn't come out.
Listen, you must try
to be strong now.
The pill may prove bitter.
And you may have to swallow it.
You must be ready for that.
You're saying he is here
because of ties of blood.
What if I say he's come
to fill his pockets?
All these travels cost
a lot these days.
I'm convinced he's come
to claim his share.
That's the only reason.
How can you be so mean?
So ruthless?
Who thought of it first?
This is what put it into
my head - crime fiction-
The thought of a will
wouldn't have struck me at all.
First, we must make sure if
your uncle had a share. Right?
We must verify that.
We've to find out the truth,
however bitter it may be.
TC, isn't it?
Are you out of my mind?
Phoning him at this hour?
Tell me, TC or TR?
Address?
Ballygunge Circular Road.
I don't know the number.
He hasn't come for his share.
I have no doubt about
this any more.
He's come only to...
Is this
Mr. Mukherrji's bungalow?
The lawyer, Mr. Mukherji?
I see.
But he's alive, isn't he?
I see, I see.
All right.
What I want to know is...
... who were Mr. Mitra's
warishan (heirs)?
Who went to Washington?
Warishan - heirs!
Oh, air.
- H-E-I-R-S -
I see, heirs (Warishan).
Yes, Mr. Mitra's heirs.
Were his three children.
Did he provide for
all 3 in his will?
Bromide?
In Mr. Mitra's will.
Yes, yes. The elder son
got his share.
The daughter Nila got hers.
Sizable amount.
You see, he was the
leading ENT specialist then.
I met him in his chamber.
I'd been to Delhi.
It was before the
time of jets.
At the time of landing,...
... my ears got blocked.
They refused to open.
I came back to Calcutta...
... to meet Mr. Mitra.
He was on the rise then.
He inserted a tube
into the nostrils.
Blew air through it.
His youngest son
Mr. Mitra.
Yes, Monu.
Manmohan.
- Did he have a share too?
Certainly.
But he was missing at
the time.
All that we knew was that...
... he was still alive.
D'you know that
he's come back?
No, I don't.
Will he get his share now?
- What?
Will he get his share if
he comes back?
Why not?
Money is not camphor
that it will evaporate.
He'll get it if he
stakes his claims.
Of course, he'll have to
prove his identity.
Will a passport do?
Oh yes.
Where is the money now?
With whom?
With the executor Mitra
has appointed.
It's in the Bank
in his account.
Is he likely to be a
friend of Mohini?
Why French? More likely
to be a Bengali.
When Mitra died,...
...I was away in Singapore,
at my son-in-law's.
What is that?
Savage Music.
- How did you come by it?
Magic!
I have found out.
- What?
Who are you?
- Well, who am I?
My great uncle.
Real or fake?
- Real.
How did you know?
The others don't.
Magic.
So I'll call you
great uncle from now?
And more than a great uncle.
- What are you?
Hopping great uncle
- Hopping great uncle?
Yes, I'm always ready to
go hopping.
All my life I've been hopping
from place to place.
I'll rest here a few days
and then go hopping again.
Do you like it here?
I'll stay as long as I do.
Then you'll go
hopping again?
Wait, I'll teach you a new word.
Very funny word.
"Kupa-munduk".
"Kupa-munduk?"
Kupa is a well and munduk
is a frog.
A frog in the well?
Yes, just this,
how terrible it is!
Dark, Dank, Smelly, Slimy...
... and yet the frog never
moves from there.
There are such frogs
among people also.
They are called stay at homes.
I'm not one of them.
That's why, I am on the move
so much of the time.
What if I go out too?
- You must.
If you don't, how can
you eat armadillo meat.
What meat?
Meat of the ant eater
armadillo.
Who eats such meat?
If I tell you everything I'll
run out of stock of stories.
Wait.
And then you'll have
your reward.
God! Both my pharynx and
larynx are gone.
A hearing aid that serves
no function at all.
Share?
He believes your uncle
did have a share.
But he was away in
Singapore at the time...
... of your grandpa's death,...
... in case your grandpa,...
... thinking his youngest son
wouldn't return,...
... has changed his will
at the last moment.
Mr. Mukherji was in
no position to know.
That must have been it.
It didn't strike me
that way at all.
If uncle had a share,...
... Mr. Sital would
certainly would have known...
... and informed uncle...
... and uncle wouldn't
hide the good news.
Why not?
A man whose hand is
tied,...
... is also likely to
have a closed mind.
Tight fisted.
A man who comes to see his
niece after 35 years...
...empty handed,...
...he is bound to be
tight fisted.
Anyway, we'll surely know...
... what kind of a man he is
after tonight's grilling.
What are you doing?
Whatever else uncle
may be he's no thief.
Beautiful!
Was this here yesterday?
No, it wasn't.
Pal bronze.
Rajput miniatures.
Ivory.
Is it your collection,
Sudhin?
No, my father's.
I noticed this instrument
yesterday.
Is that a Sitar or a Tanpura?
- Tanpura.
So you sing, do you?
- Occasionally.
She not only sings
but dances too.
A dance recital would be
too tall an order.
But it would be nice, if you
could give us a song.
What about it, dear?
Haven't heard a Bengali song
ever since I left home.
I'll sing when you've
finished your tea.
Very well.
Where is Bablu?
He's gone to his friends house.
Where the Durga festival is on.
By the way, if you wish to smoke,
please go ahead.
Some people don't smoke
in the presence of elders.
I don't believe in such
show of respect.
Is it the Durga Festival that
has brought you at this time?
I didn't even know the
festival season was on.
Do you know how many times
the Goddess Durga...
... slew the Buffalo Demon?
- I thought only once.
D'you know Ganesh has the
head of an elephant?
I did, but I've
forgotten.
I heard all the mythologies
from my grandma.
I still remember them.
How do you think our
country is shaping?
D'you read the papers?
Caste and religion, which
create serious problems.
The newspapers bear
testimony to that.
Do you believe
in Dharma?
By Dharma you mean
religion I suppose.
But in our scriptures, Dharma
means something quite different.
I mean religion.
I'll answer your
question later.
Have you finished your tea?
- Yes.
Ready, dear?
Silence please.
"Who plays the Veena.."
"Who plays the Veena
in such dulcet tones?"
"Who plays the Veena.."
"Showering melody upon
my secluded life."
"Who plays the Veena
in such dulcet tones?"
"Who plays the Veena.."
"My heart opens up like
the morning lotus."
"And wait for a pair of
damp feet to approach me."
"Who plays the Veena
in such dulcet tones?"
"Who plays the Veena.."
"Grace and beauty awakens..."
"... and my heart
fills with joy."
"Grace and beauty awakens..."
"... and my heart
fills with joy."
"A fresh breeze flows..."
"... and stirs everything
to a new life."
"A fresh breeze flows..."
"... and stirs everything
to a new life."
"Reaching the depth
of my being,..."
"... who plays the Veena
in such dulcet tones?"
"Who plays the Veena.."
"My heart has known pain.
Both the happiness and sorrow."
"But I have had no song
to express it."
"My heart has known pain.
Both the happiness and sorrow."
"But I have had no song
to express it."
"And all my desire
comes out into the open."
"And the river and forest
trembles in sympathy."
"Who plays the Veena
in such dulcet tones?"
"Who plays the Veena.."
Lovely!
Reminds me
of my sister.
What was the question?
Whether you believe
in religion or not?
Oh yes, religion.
Mr. Sen Gupta. I happen to be
a bit unorthodox in my views.
That's all right.
I don't believe in something which
creates barriers between people.
Religion does that.
Particularly organised religion.
For the same reason,
I don't believe in caste.
What about God?
"Gives light to the blind,
life to the dying."
Who will give "light" ?
Who will give life?
The trouble is, it is
extremely difficult...
..to believe in a
benevolent God these days.
The daily papers alone make us
question that belief.
What can you do?
I am of the same
opinion as you are.
But, what about science?
Voyager has sent
pictures of Neptune.
What do you think of that?
For a change,
let's hear what you think.
Nothing special.
Mine is the opinion of
an average educated person.
And what is that?
The advance in technology
has been phenomenal.
Something we couldn't
dream of a few years back.
Now look at something else.
Millions of people mostly
young are injecting...
... the deadliest of drugs...
... into their system by means
of hypodermic needles...
...and signing their
death warrants.
What technology is there to put
a stop to this, Mr. Sen Gupta?
You've been living in the
West, haven't you?
Yes.
Why? The West is ruled
by technology.
If it is something
so unsavory to you,...
... why don't you go and
stay with the jungle folk?
But that is Clairvoyance.
It certainly doesn't come
under the purview of science.
You mean, you have actually
lived with these jungle folks?
After leaving home, I spent 5 years
in the country in tribal areas.
Starting with the Santhals,...
... I studied the Kols,
Bhils, Nagas, Mundas...
...Murias, Marias,
Oraons, Todas...
It's an endless list...
You actually spent time
with these tribals?
Have you ever tasted
rat-meat?
Snake meat?
Bat meat?
I told you I was omnivorous.
I'm not using a figure of speech.
It's plain truth.
It doesn't seem likely that in
these 5 years you earned anything.
On the contrary, I reached
the end of my resources.
You must be wondering where
the resources came from.
I don't imagine your father
sponsored your disappearance.
I'll tell you
what happened.
My grandmother,
the late "Giribala Dasi",...
... whom I mentioned
a little while ago,...
... was extremely
fond of me.
Went to the length
of spoiling me.
I stood first in my
matriculation exam,...
... as well as in my
intermediate exam.
When I got first class
in B.A.,...
...my grandma made me a gift
of large sum of money,...
Saying, you've brought
great honour to our family.
May God bless you.
3000 rupees was no joke
in those days.
So, I left home
with my own resources.
I didn't have to beg,
borrow or steal.
I get it.
But you said you had
run out of your resources.
Here a question naturally
arises.
Who paid for
your trip abroad...
... and then,
after you arrived in London?
And the 5 years not
just in London,...
...but in various
cities in Europe.
What did you do there?
I struggled to make
both ends meet.
Struggle - a favourite
word with the Bengalis.
But I don't call it struggle.
I think of it as nutrition for
the brain and for the muscle...
... and as the first step in
getting to know your fellow beings.
When did you return
to the jungles?
All these experiences,
it seems to me,...
... took place
in civilized cities.
Have patience,
dear beloved.
I may go to Mathura soon.
My autobiography won't get you
much nearer the truth my friend.
You're trying to reach
the core of the person...
... by peeling the layers
of the onion, aren't you?
The task is not an easy one.
Even so, for the sake of
the record, let me tell you...
... and by the time I had started
writing for various journals,...
... as a result
I had a bank balance,...
... which again led me to my
second phase of scholarship.
A degree in anthropology...
... and then on to
the United States.
United States?
- United States of America.
Reason?
- Indians.
Oh, I see - American Indians.
A cabin boy again?
No, Sir.
Don't mind.
I may sound I am beating
my own drum.
But there too I stood
first in the examination.
As a result, I didn't
have to struggle anymore.
A well known Anthropological Society
paid for my travels in the USA...
...on condition that...
...I regularly send them written
accounts of my experiments...
... along with photographs.
I fulfilled the condition.
In North and South
Americas,...
...I spent time studying
43 different tribes.
It was this experience,
which really opened my eyes.
Very well.
You sit down.
You're beginning
to sound hoarse.
As you wish.
You listen while I talk.
Correct me if I am wrong.
The upshot is...
all these experiences
has led you to believe...
...that the so called urban
civilization is an eye wash.
Real civilization is to be
found among the tribals.
Let me tell you that although
I am city born and bred,...
... I am not ignorant
about tribal life.
I have read quite
a few books on the subject.
I know they have their own
language, their own religion,...
...their art, their culture,
their music, etc., etc.,
What is etc. etc.?
You must tell these people what
you're hiding behind that word
Otherwise how
will they know me?
How will they know about
tribal civilazation?
You tell me what
I have left out!
My good man,
the main things!
Science, technology
You're thinking only of
Neptune and voyager
Just turn your
thoughts to Man
In the most primitive
barbaric state...
try to figure out how they
could learn hunting, pottery...
...and everything needed to
lead a decent human existence
Then there's architecture
Even a simple mud hut shows
evidence of architecture
Do you know the igloo?
The dwelling of the Eskimos?
Do you know that two kinds of
ice are used to build it?
One is opaque, which
is used in the roofing.
And the other is
transparent.
Which is used to build
rectangular windows.
How will you describe
such a kind of activity?
Isn't this science?
Isn't this technology?
Nonsense!
Do you send for a shaman to
treat you when you are unwell?
I have had recourse to that.
I had no option.
Where would you find a
doctor in a jungle?
But d'you know the kind of
the shaman he is?
The properties of 500 medicinal
plants are on his finger tips.
He was able to cure me.
Normally, I wouldn't
send for a shaman.
Not when I sit on a sofa
having tea and biscuits with you.
Why do you insist on twist
around something,...
...which is basically
very simple?
Why don't you see that
I'm not a savage myself?
It's my greatest regret
that I'm not a savage.
That I can't draw bisons
like a cave hunter.
But how can I help it?
I've Shakespeare and Tagore
Marx & Freud in my blood stream.
That's why, I can't do
without field notes.
I wouldn't need them,
if I was a savage, would I?
You claim to have
studied the Murias.
I do.
What do you think of what
goes on in the Ghotuls?
The sexual freedom that
the young Murias enjoy,...
Sorry, Nili.
What do your field notes
say about that?
Doesn't that amount to
extreme promiscuity?
Or would you call that
civilized too?
What you feel in your
heart, I feel in mine.
What I feel in my heart,
you feel in yours.
Holy wedlock.
That is civilized.
A little while ago you
called yourself omnivorous.
Have you tasted
human flesh?
No, I haven't had
the good fortune.
Good fortune?
I've heard human flesh is tasty!
But I haven't eaten it.
My claim was a fake one
Anila - I'm sorry.
Where in the scale of
civilized behaviour...
... would you
place cannibals?
Civilized?
It's barbaric!
Do you know who is
really civilized?
It's the man who by using his thumb,
presses a button...
which releases a weapon which
obliterates an entire city...
... with all its
inhabitants...
...and you know where
who's more civilized?
It's those who take
the decision...
to use the weapon,
without turning a hair.
Well, Mr. Sen Gupta.
The surname doesn't come
easily, does it?
Still you are so unsure
of my identity.
May I request something?
I have used a pen name.
A name very dear to me
in my early years.
Nemo.
I suggest that you use that.
Yes, Latin expression
meaning 'No One'!
And apt name for me,
isn't it?
That's exactly what
we're trying to decide.
Whether you are 'No One'
or 'Some One'.
Do you know what
a serious problem...
...you've set for
my friends here?
Do you know, they've lost...
their peace of mind
since you came here?
It's just because
they're decent people...
...that they have been too
generous with their hospitality.
But you've refused to
make it clear to them,...
whether you're welcome
or unwelcome as a guest.
You've said your passport
proves nothing.
Surely, you yourself know
if its genuine or fake.
Then why can't you come out
and tell them the truth?
I'll be off now.
Listen, listen.
Did you really have
to be so harsh?
He is unfit for
civilized society.
He has no right to encroach
on your hospitality.
Why talk of encroachment,
...when he is only here
for a short while?
And you swore not to grill him,
but go about it gently.
He should know
where he stands.
I know your wife and
I know...
...what she is serving him
for lunch or dinner.
Not field rat meat, surely.
If I hadn't kicked him off.
He'd have a stuck
to you like a leech.
You don't know these
parasites, I do.
I don't know how to...
I feel miserable.
Even at dinner,
he didn't say a word.
If I knew Pritish
would talk like that,...
I'd certainly not
have asked him to come.
He mentioned traditional
hospitality in his letter.
Is this a sample of that?
What we have to do
now is...
... to wipe out from his
mind the feeling of hurt...
... that tonight's behaviour
has caused him.
Shall I ask you something?
- What?
Did you have the least idea
that...
... he's spent half his
life in this fashion?
None at all.
Extraordinary life,
full of strange experience.
It's certainly been an
education listening to him.
But at the same time,...
...I felt a distance
growing between us...
... and uncle is someone
you can warm to.
In this case,
...you feel for him is
reverence and respect.
The problem is...
erudition works
on the brain,...
... not on the heart.
You can't bring yourself
to behave like a savage.
If you could, you could've
easier access to your uncle.
That can never be.
But there is no doubt that
we have to make peace with him.
More than anything else,
he is our guest.
As such, we have no right
to hurt his feelings.
You can address him as
uncle if this would help.
I won't mind...
... that I will,
if it comes from my heart.
I refuse to be a hypocrite.
Listen.
What is it?
- He's gone.
His room is empty.
- What?
He's gone away with
all his belongings.
This key was the
only thing left.
This is just what
I feared.
What shall we do now?
- Wait a minute.
Let us put two and two
together.
Should we inform the police?
Give me the directory.
Who do you want me
to phone?
I'm working on a hunch.
Give me the book.
Who is it?
The main door is open, Sir.
Since when?
More than an hour.
Your door was shut, so I
couldn't come and tell you.
It's all right.
You may go now.
Mummy.
There is no one
in Great-uncle's room.
I know.
- Where has he gone?
I don't know.
What's that?
Subscriber Trunk Dialing - STD.
Do you know
Mr. Sital's number?
Then you tell him.
What'll I say?
Listen carefully.
Ask him first, if he had
been the executor...
...of your
grandfather's will.
If he says yes,
then ask him...
...if your uncle had
a share and...
... if the money
is still with him.
Has he informed your uncle
about his share?
If he says yes,
then tell him.
We'll be soon on our way
to Shantiniketan.
And will arrive around
two in the afternoon.
We'll have lunch
on the way.
So he mustn't
worry on that count.
Come on, ring him up.
Come, dear.
How are you, young man?
Hasn't he come?
- Oh, yes.
The train arrived
more than an hour ago.
Where is he?
- Come, I'll tell you everything.
You said on the phone that
he is a little temperamental.
I found him quite
most emphatically so.
He came here last in 55.
You know, I had carried him
in my arms to the zoo.
Where has he gone?
He's had nothing to eat
in the morning.
I asked him, don't you
want a lunch?
He said, no.
Not even a cup of tea?
No.
Then what was the point
in coming, I asked him.
We have met after
such a long time ...
... and all you have in mind
is a cold monetary transaction.
Is that not true?
What did he say?
He said, well,
he needed the money.
But the formalities
can wait because...
..he's come to stay for
a few days and will go back...
.. and catch a plane from
Calcutta. So there was no hurry.
In any case, today is a Sunday.
The bank is closed.
So he'd have to wait
a day any way.
If you told us where
he is now,... ?
... have you been there before?
- I have.
Before my marriage,
three times.
There's a tribal village
on the way called Baner Pukur.
That's where he has gone.
Said before leaving India he'd
spend some time in this village.
Don't ask him what drew him
there in the first place.
Such a long time
since we met.
One would expect
he would sit down...
...and talk about
his experiences.
And you know the
funniest thing?
Before touching my feet
he held up his passport to prove...
... that he was really
Manmohan Mitra.
Well, since we've come
around to look for him, ...
... perhaps we ought to go and
see if we can hunt him out.
Very well. And if you find him,
just grab him and bring him here.
That's what we'll do.
By the way,...
... I hope he's not gone off
his rocker, has he?
Oh, no.
- Such a lot of money.
I've been guarding it like
a treasure for over 2 years.
5 lakh. You can imagine what
the amount has come to now.
Don't worry,
he is perfectly sound.
You there.
Bring a cot and place
it here, will you?
I'm expecting visitors.
There. There's Great uncle.
Come.
Sit down.
Why did you have to do such
a thing without telling us?
I felt very restless.
We're extremely sorry for
what happened that night.
Shall I tell you
the truth?
I'm used to the ways of
the jungle folk.
If I find somebody throwing
his weight around, ...
.. I can't put up
with that.
You've had nothing
to eat since morning.
We've come to
take you back.
Come.
Not now.
It does no harm to fast
for a part of the day.
There'll be dancing
this afternoon.
I have arranged it.
I'll watch the dance
and then go.
You'll watch it too!
The kols are the oldest
inhabitants of India.
The Santals here are
related to this tribe.
150 years ago,...
... the Santals rose in
rebellion against the British.
You'll come to Calcutta
to our house?
Since you've come,
I certainly will.
But not today, I'll go by
train tomorrow afternoon.
I have some work here
tomorrow morning.
You're coming into some
money, aren't you?
Yes.
Such good news and you
didn't tell us about it!
There was a reason
for that.
I felt,
since I hadn't fulfilled
my obligation to my father,...
.. I had no claim
to his property.
Then I thought, such
a large sum of money...
... and since my father had
made it out to me, ...
... through sheer affection,
then...
...why refuse money?
Sit down.
Breath the fresh air.
There's no more to talk about.
Do you like it?
- Very much.
What are you waiting for?
Shall I?
- By all means.
You see what your niece
is up to?
I have often doubted whether
she is really my niece.
Not any more.
Keep my suitcase as a
memento then.
I grew very attached
to it.
I didn't know why
you have to, ...
...because you're yet to
be civilized in some respects.
Very well.
Your word is law.
And these note books,
you need them all?
But they are my
field notes, dear
I've thrown away the ones
I've no need for.
Well, I'll leave them then.
You pay excess baggage.
After all, you're a
millionaire.
We'd all settled on coming
to the airport with you.
Yes, you'd be unsettled
if you found out...
... the plane was
eight hours late.
You can count on the Sun
and Moon to be punctual...
... but not the airlines.
Take these bags downstairs.
I told you to wait...
... and here's your reward.
It was made by the Armadillo
Cater, 1500 years ago.
Say thank you.
- No.
There's no better thank
than that smile.
I have forgotten to
tell you one thing.
I've written a book.
A sort of travel book.
An Indian amongst Indians.
An American publisher
is bringing it out.
He's given me an handsome
advance on it.
Then you are really rich now.
- Indeed, I am.
You'll write?
What I'll do...
once I'm in my element.
Just to say
you've arrived safely.
That I'll do.
One final duty.
What is it?
Have you heard of the
English word...
... 'Floccinancinihili
Pilification?'
Yes. I learnt it in school.
D'you know what it means?
Not really.
29 letters to convey
this meaning.
A sure sign of civilization.
Not now, let me go first.
I feel very embarrassed
if someone reads...
... something I've written,
in my presence.
Just a few lines to
thank you for your hospitality.
Well, Satyaki.
It's time your Great-uncle
started on his trips.
Won't you ever come back?
It's your turn to come to me.
You've promised never to
become something....
.... 'Kupamunduk'.
- Don't forget.
Well then.
I've been most remiss, uncle.
Please forgive me.
You've been remiss.
Didn't I know what a serious
problem I had set for you?
But there was
a reason for that.
What does a
passport tell you?
The name of the holder
and what he looks like.
But it doesn't tell you
what the person is like.
To know this,
it takes time.
That time was needed.
Is the touching of feet
common among of the savages?
Not that I know of.
Then instead of that, if...
Good bye, then.
Wait. Let's see
what uncle has to say.
But this
is addressed to you.
A poem.
Blood is thicker than water
So my share goes to one...
.. who's more than
my daughter.
What's that?
It's made out to me.
And Sital's signature.
Don't you see?
He's willed his entire
share to you.
Mr. No one